General Test Information
This is a test of your ability to use English in an academic context. There are four sections that make up the complete test.
In the Reading section, you will answer questions about three reading passages.
In the Listening section, you will answer questions about two conversations and four lectures.
In the Speaking section, you will answer six questions. Some of the questions ask you to speak based on your own experience. Other questions ask you to speak about lectures you have heard and/or passages you have read.
In the Writing section, you will answer two questions. The first question asks you to write about the relationship between a lecture you will hear and a passage you will read. The second asks you to write an essay about a topic of general interest based on your experience.
You will have a 10-minute break after the Listening section.
There will be directions for each section which explain how to answer the questions in that section.
You should work quickly but carefully on the Listening and Reading questions. Some questions are more difficult than others, but try to answer every one to the best of your ability. If you are not sure of the answer to a question, make the best guess that you can. The questions that you answer by speaking and writing are each separately timed. Try to answer every one of these questions as completely as possible in the time allowed.
When you are ready to continue, click on the Dismiss Directions icon.







Reading Section Directions
In this section you will read three passages and answer reading comprehension questions about each passage. Most questions are worth one point, but the last question in each set is worth more than one point. The directions indicate how many points you may receive.
You will have 60 minutes to read all of the passages and answer the questions. Some passages include a word or phrase that is underlined in blue. Click on the word or phrase to see a definition or an explanation.
When you want to move on to the next question, click on Next. You can skip questions and go back to them later as long as long as there is time remaining. If you want to return to previous questions, click on Back. You can click on Review at any time and the review screen will show you which questions you have answered and which you have not. From this review screen, you may go directly to any question you have already seen in the reading section.
When you are ready to continue, click on the Dismiss Directions icon.

























Opportunists and Competitors
 Growth, reproduction, and daily metabolism all require an organism to expend energy. The expenditure of energy is essentially a process of budgeting, just as finances are budgeted. If all of one¡¯s money is spent on clothes, there may be none left to buy food or go to the movies. Similarly, a plant or animal cannot squander all its energy on growing a big body if none would be left over for reproduction, for this is the surest way to extinction.
All organisms, therefore, allocate energy to growth, reproduction, maintenance, and storage. No choice is involved; this allocation comes as part of the genetic package from the parents. Maintenance for a given body design of an organism is relatively constant. Storage is important, but ultimately that energy will be used for maintenance, reproduction, or growth. Therefore the principal differences in energy allocation are likely to be between growth and reproduction.
Almost all of an organism¡¯s energy can be diverted to reproduction, with very little allocated to building the body. Organisms at this extreme are ¡°opportunists.¡± At the other extreme are ¡°competitors,¡± almost all of whose resources are invested in building a huge body, with a bare minimum allocated to reproduction.
Dandelions are good examples of opportunists. Their seedheads raised just high enough above the ground to catch the wind, the plants are no bigger than they need be, their stems are hollow, and all the rigidity comes from their water content. Thus, a minimum investment has been made in the body that becomes a platform for seed dispersal. These very short-lived plants reproduce prolifically; that is to say they provide a constant rain of seed in the neighborhood of parent plants. A new plant will spring up wherever a seed falls on a suitable soil surface, but because they do not build big bodies, they cannot compete with other plants for space, water, or sunlight. These plants are termed opportunists because they rely on their seeds¡¯ falling into settings where competing plants have been removed by natural processes, such as along an eroding riverbank, on landslips, or where a tree falls and creates a gap in the forest canopy.
Opportunists must constantly invade new areas to compensate for being displaced by more competitive species. Human landscapes of lawns, fields, or flowerbeds provide settings with bare soil and a lack of competitors that are perfect habitats for colonization by opportunists.  Hence, many of the strongly opportunistic plants are the common weeds of fields and gardens.  
Because each individual is short-lived, the population of an opportunist species is likely to be adversely affected by drought, bad winters, or floods.  If their population is tracked through time, it will be seen to be particularly unstable¡ªsoaring and plummeting in irregular cycles.  
 The opposite of an opportunist is a competitor. These organisms tend to have big bodies, are long-lived, and spend relatively little effort each year on reproduction. An oak tree is a good example of a competitor. A massive oak claims its ground for 200 years or more, outcompeting all other would-be canopy trees by casting a dense shade and drawing up any free water in the soil. The leaves of an oak tree taste foul because they are rich in tannins, a chemical that renders them distasteful or indigestible to many organisms. The tannins are part of the defense mechanism that is essential to longevity. Although oaks produce thousands of acorns, the investment in a crop of acorns is small compared with the energy spent on building leaves, trunk, and roots. Once an oak tree becomes established, it is likely to survive minor cycles of drought and even fire. A population of oaks is likely to be relatively stable through time, and its survival is likely to depend more on its ability to withstand the pressures of competition or predation than on its ability to take advantage of chance events. It should be noted, however, that the pure opportunist or pure competitor is rare in nature, as most species fall between the extremes of a continuum, exhibiting a blend of some opportunistic and some competitive characteristics.

1. The word squander in the passage is closest in meaning to
 	extend 
 	transform 
 	activate 
 	waste 

2. The word none in the passage refers to
 	food 
 	plant or animal 
 	energy 
 	big body 

3. In paragraph 1, the author explains the concept of energy expenditure by
 	identifying types of organisms that became extinct 
 	comparing the scientific concept to a familiar human experience 
 	arguing that most organisms conserve rather than expend energy 
 	describing the processes of growth, reproduction, and metabolism 
Paragraph 1 is marked with an arrow  .

4. According to the passage, the classification of organisms as ¡°opportunists¡± or ¡°competitors¡± is determined by
 	how the genetic information of an organism is stored and maintained 
 	the way in which the organism invests its energy resources 
 	whether the climate in which the organism lives is mild or extreme 
 	the variety of natural resources the organism consumes in its environment 

5. The word dispersal in the passage is closest in meaning to
 	development 
 	growth 
 	distribution 
 	protection 

6. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
 	Because their seeds grow in places where competing plants are no longer present, dandelions are classified as opportunists. 
 	Dandelions are called opportunists because they contribute to the natural processes of erosion and the creation of gaps in the forest canopy. 
 	The term opportunists applies to plants whose seeds fall in places where they can compete with the seeds of other plants. 
 	The term opportunists applies to plants whose falling seeds are removed by natural processes. 

7. The word massive in the passage is closest in meaning to
 	huge 
 	ancient 
 	common 
 	successful 

8. All of the following are mentioned in paragraph 7 as contributing to the longevity of an oak tree EXCEPT
 	the capacity to create shade 
 	leaves containing tannin 
 	the ability to withstand mild droughts and fire 
 	the large number of acorns the tree produces 
Paragraph 7 is marked with an arrow  .

9. According to the passage, oak trees are considered competitors because
 	they grow in areas free of opportunists 
 	they spend more energy on their leaves, trunks and roots than on their acorns 
 	their population tends to increase or decrease in irregular cycles 
 	unlike other organisms, they do not need much water or sunlight 

10. In paragraph 7, the author suggests that most species of organisms
 	are primarily opportunists 
 	are primarily competitors 
 	begin as opportunists and evolve into competitors 
 	have some characteristics of opportunists and some of competitors 
Paragraph 7 is marked with an arrow  .

11. Look at the four squares  that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
Such episodic events will cause a population of dandelions, for example, to vary widely.
Where would the sentence best fit?
Click on a square  to add the sentence to the passage.

12. Directions: Complete the table by matching the phrases below
Directions: Select the appropriate phrases from the answer choices and match them to the type of organism to which they relate. TWO of the answer choices will NOT be used. This question is worth 4 points.
Drag your answer choices to the spaces where they belong. To remove an answer choice, click on it. To review the passage, click on View Text.
Answer Choices	 	Opportunists
Vary frequently the amount of energy they spend in body maintenance	 
 
Have mechanisms for protecting themselves from predation	 
 
Succeed in locations where other organisms have been removed	 
 
Have relatively short life spans	 
 
Invest energy in the growth of large, strong structures	 
 
Have populations that are unstable in response to climate conditions	 
Competitors
Can rarely find suitable soil for reproduction	 
 
Produce individuals that can withstand changes in the environmental conditions	 
 
Reproduce in large numbers	 
 


Lascaux Cave Paintings
In Southwest France in the 1940¡¯s, playing children discovered Lascaux Grotto, a series of narrow cave chambers that contain huge prehistoric paintings of animals. Many of these beasts are as large as 16 feet (almost 5 meters). Some follow each other in solemn parades, but others swirl about, sideways and upside down. The animals are bulls, wild horses, reindeer, bison, and mammoths outlined with charcoal and painted mostly in reds, yellow, and browns. Scientific analysis reveals that the colors were derived from ocher and other iron oxides ground into a fine powder. Methods of applying color varied: some colors were brushed or smeared on rock surfaces and others were blown or sprayed. It is possible that tubes made from animal bones were used for spraying because hollow bones, some stained with pigment, have been found nearby.
 One of the most puzzling aspects of the paintings is their location. Other rock paintings¡ªfor example, those of Bushmen in South Africa¡ªare either located near cave entrances or completely in the open.  Cave paintings in France and Spain, however, are in recesses and caverns far removed from original cave entrances.  This means that artists were forced to work in cramped spaces and without sources of natural light.  It also implies that whoever made them did not want them to be easily found.  Since cave dwellers normally lived close to entrances, there must have been some reason why so many generations of Lascaux cave dwellers hid their art.
Scholars offer three related but different opinions about the mysterious origin and significance of these paintings. One opinion is that the paintings were a record of seasonal migrations made by herds. Because some paintings were made directly over others, obliterating them, it is probable that a painting¡¯s value ended with the migration it pictured. Unfortunately, this explanation fails to explain the hidden locations, unless the migrations were celebrated with secret ceremonies.
 Another opinion is that the paintings were directly related to hunting and were an essential part of a special preparation ceremony. This opinion holds that the pictures and whatever ceremony they accompanied were an ancient method of psychologically motivating hunters. It is conceivable that before going hunting the hunters would draw or study pictures of animals and imagine a successful hunt. Considerable support exists for this opinion because several animals in the pictures are wounded by arrows and spears. This opinion also attempts to solve the overpainting by explaining that an animal¡¯s picture had no further use after the hunt.
 A third opinion takes psychological motivation much further into the realm of tribal ceremonies and mystery: the belief that certain animals assumed mythical significance as ancient ancestors or protectors of a given tribe or clan. Two types of images substantiate this theory: the strange, indecipherable geometric shapes that appear near some animals, and the few drawings of men. Wherever men appear they are crudely drawn and their bodies are elongated and rigid. Some men are in a prone position and some have bird or animal heads. Advocates for this opinion point to reports from people who have experienced a trance state, a highly suggestive state of low consciousness between waking and sleeping. Uniformly, these people experienced weightlessness and the sensation that their bodies were being stretched lengthwise. Advocates also point to people who believe that the forces of nature are inhabited by spirits, particularly shamans* who believe that an animal¡¯s spirit and energy is transferred to them while in a trance. One Lascaux narrative picture, which shows a man with a birdlike head and a wounded animal, would seem to lend credence to this third opinion, but there is still much that remains unexplained. For example, where is the proof that the man in the picture is a shaman? He could as easily be a hunter wearing a headmask. Many tribal hunters, including some Native Americans, camouflaged themselves by wearing animal heads and hides.
 Perhaps so much time has passed that there will never be satisfactory answers to the cave images, but their mystique only adds to their importance. Certainly a great art exists, and by its existence reveals that ancient human beings were not without intelligence, skill, and sensitivity.
*shamans: holy people who act as healers and diviners

13. The word others in the passage refers to
 	chambers 
 	paintings 
 	beasts 
 	parades 

14. The word Methods in the passage is closest in meaning to
 	Ways 
 	Shades 
 	Stages 
 	Rules 

15. What are the bones found in the Lascaux caves believed to indicate?
 	Wild animals sometimes lived in the cave chambers. 
 	Artists painted pictures on both walls and bones. 
 	Artists ground them into a fine powder to make paint. 
 	Artists developed special techniques for painting the walls. 

16. Why does the author mention Bushmen in South Africa in paragraph 2?
 	To suggest that ancient artists from all over the world painted animals on rocks 
 	To contrast the location of their rock paintings to those found at Lascaux 
 	To support the claim that early artists worked in cramped spaces 
 	To give an example of other artists who painted in hidden locations 
Paragraph 2 is marked with an arrow  .

17. What can be inferred from paragraph 2 about cave painters in France and Spain?
 	They also painted rocks outside caves. 
 	They did not live close to the cave entrances. 
 	They developed their own sources of light to use while painting. 
 	Their painting practices did not last for many years. 
Paragraph 2 is marked with an arrow  .

18. Why does the author mention secret ceremonies?
 	To present a common opinion held by many scholars 
 	To suggest a similarity between two opinions held by scholars 
 	To suggest a possible explanation for a weakness in an opinion expressed in the passage 
 	To give evidence that contradicts a major opinion expressed in the passage 

19. The word accompanied in the passage is closest in meaning to
 	represented 
 	developed into 
 	were associated with 
 	came after 

20. According to paragraph 4, why do some scholars believe that the paintings were related to hunting?
 	Because some tools used for painting were also used for hunting 
 	Because cave inhabitants were known to prefer animal food rather than plant food 
 	Because some of the animals are shown wounded by weapons 
 	Because many hunters were also typically painters 
Paragraph 4 is marked with an arrow  .

21. According to paragraph 5, why do some scholars refer to a trance state to help understand the cave paintings?
 	To explain the state of consciousness the artists were in when they painted their pictures 
 	To demonstrate the mythical significance of the strange geometric shapes 
 	To indicate that trance states were often associated with activities that took place inside caves 
 	To give a possible reason for the strange appearance of the men painted on the cave walls 
Paragraph 5 is marked with an arrow  .

22. According to paragraph 5, if the man pictured with the birdlike head is not a shaman, he may have worn the headmask
 	to look like an animal while a hunt took place 
 	to frighten off other hunters competing for food 
 	to prove that he is not a shaman 
 	to resist forces of nature thought to be present in animals 
Paragraph 5 is marked with an arrow  .

23. According to paragraph 6, why might the puzzling questions about the paintings never be answered?
 	Keeping the paintings a mystery will increase their importance. 
 	The artists hid their tools with great intelligence and skill. 
 	Too many years have gone by since the images were painted. 
 	Answering the questions is not very important to scholars. 
Paragraph 6 is marked with an arrow  .

24. Look at the four squares  that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
This made it easy for the artists to paint and display them for the rest of the cave dwellers.
Where would the sentence best fit?
Click on a square  to add the sentence to the passage.

25. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summary because they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
Scholars have wondered about the meaning of the subjects, location, and overpainting of Lascaux cave images.
 


 


 

Answer Choices
The paintings may have recorded information about animal migrations, and may only have been useful for one migration at a time.	Unlike painters of the recently discovered paintings, other Lascaux cave painters usually painted on rocks near cave entrances or in open spaces outside the caves.
The human figures represented in the paintings appear to be less carefully shaped than those of animals.	Some scholars believe that the paintings motivated hunters by allowing them to picture a successful hunt.
It is possible that the animals in the paintings were of mythical significance to the tribe, and the paintings reflected an important spiritual practice.	Scientific analysis suggests that paintings were sprayed onto the rock walls with tubes made from animal bones.

Drag your answer choices to the spaces where they belong. To remove an answer choice, click on it. To review the passage, click on View Text.


Electricity from Wind
 Since 1980, the use of wind to produce electricity has been growing rapidly.  In 1994 there were nearly 20,000 wind turbines worldwide, most grouped in clusters called wind farms that collectively produced 3,000 megawatts of electricity.  Most were in Denmark (which got 3 percent of its electricity from wind turbines) and California (where 17,000 machines produced 1 percent of the state¡¯s electricity, enough to meet the residential needs of a city as large as San Francisco).  In principle, all the power needs of the United States could be provided by exploiting the wind potential of just three states¡ªNorth Dakota, South Dakota, and Texas.  
Large wind farms can be built in six months to a year and then easily expanded as needed. With a moderate to fairly high net energy yield, these systems emit no heat-trapping carbon dioxide or other air pollutants and need no water for cooling; manufacturing them produces little water pollution. The land under wind turbines can be used for grazing cattle and other purposes, and leasing land for wind turbines can provide extra income for farmers and ranchers.
 Wind power has a significant cost advantage over nuclear power and has become competitive with coal-fired power plants in many places. With new technological advances and mass production, projected cost declines should make wind power one of the world¡¯s cheapest ways to produce electricity. In the long run, electricity from large wind farms in remote areas might be used to make hydrogen gas from water during periods when there is less than peak demand for electricity. The hydrogen gas could then be fed into a storage system and used to generate electricity when additional or backup power is needed.
 Wind power is most economical in areas with steady winds. In areas where the wind dies down, backup electricity from a utility company or from an energy storage system becomes necessary. Backup power could also be provided by linking wind farms with a solar cell, with conventional or pumped-storage hydropower, or with efficient natural-gas-burning turbines. Some drawbacks to wind farms include visual pollution and noise, although these can be overcome by improving their design and locating them in isolated areas.
 Large wind farms might also interfere with the flight patterns of migratory birds in certain areas, and they have killed large birds of prey (especially hawks, falcons, and eagles) that prefer to hunt along the same ridge lines that are ideal for wind turbines. The killing of birds of prey by wind turbines has pitted environmentalists who champion wildlife protection against environmentalists who promote renewable wind energy. Researchers are evaluating how serious this problem is and hope to find ways to eliminate or sharply reduce this problem. Some analysts also contend that the number of birds killed by wind turbines is dwarfed by birds killed by other human-related sources and by the potential loss of entire bird species from possible global warming. Recorded deaths of birds of prey and other birds in wind farms in the United States currently amount to no more than 300 per year. By contrast, in the United States an estimated 97 million birds are killed each year when they collide with buildings made of plate glass, 57 million are killed on highways each year; at least 3.8 million die annually from pollution and poisoning; and millions of birds are electrocuted each year by transmission and distribution lines carrying power produced by nuclear and coal power plants.
The technology is in place for a major expansion of wind power worldwide. Wind power is a virtually unlimited source of energy at favorable sites, and even excluding environmentally sensitive areas, the global potential of wind power is much higher than the current world electricity use. In theory, Argentina, Canada, Chile, China, Russia, and the United Kingdom could use wind to meet all of their energy needs. Wind power experts project that by the middle of the twenty-first century wind power could supply more than 10 percent of the world¡¯s electricity and 10-25 percent of the electricity used in the United States.

26. Based on the information in paragraph 1, which of the following best explains the term wind farms?
 	Farms using windmills to pump water 
 	Research centers exploring the uses of wind 
 	Types of power plant common in North Dakota 
 	Collections of wind turbines producing electric power 
Paragraph 1 is marked with an arrow  .

27. The word emit in the passage is closest in meaning to
 	use 
 	require 
 	release 
 	destroy 

28. Based on the information in paragraph 3 and paragraph 4, what can be inferred about the states of North Dakota, South Dakota, and Texas mentioned at the end of paragraph 1 ?
 	They rely largely on coal-fired power plants. 
 	They contain remote areas where the winds rarely die down. 
 	Over 1 percent of the electricity in these states is produced by wind farms. 
 	Wind farms in these states are being expanded to meet the power needs of the United States. 
Paragraph 3 and paragraph 4 are marked with arrows  .

29. According to paragraph 3, which of the following is true about periods when the demand for electricity is relatively low?
 	These periods are times when wind turbines are powered by hydrogen gas. 
 	These periods provide the opportunity to produce and store energy for future use. 
 	These periods create storage problems for all forms of power generation. 
 	These periods occur as often as periods when the demand for electricity is high. 
Paragraph 3 is marked with an arrow  .

30. In paragraph 4, the author states that in areas where winds are not steady
 	power does not reach all customers 
 	wind farms cannot be used 
 	solar power is more appropriate 
 	backup systems are needed 
Paragraph 4 is marked with an arrow  .

31. According to paragraph 4, what can be inferred about the problems of visual pollution and noise associated with wind farms?
 	Both problems affect the efficiency of wind farms. 
 	Possible solutions are known for both problems. 
 	Wind power creates more noise than visual pollution. 
 	People are more concerned about visual pollution than noise. 
Paragraph 4 is marked with an arrow  .

32. The phrase this problem in the passage refers to
 	interference with the flight patterns of migrating birds in certain areas 
 	building ridge lines that are ideal for wind turbines 
 	the killing of birds of prey by wind turbines 
 	meeting the demands of environmentalists who promote renewable wind energy 

33. Which of the sentences below best expresses the essential information in the highlighted sentence in the passage? Incorrect choices change the meaning in important ways or leave out essential information.
 	Hawks, falcons, and eagles prefer to hunt along ridge lines, where wind turbines can kill large numbers of migratory birds. 
 	Wind turbines occasionally cause migratory birds to change their flight patterns and therefore may interfere with the areas where birds of prey prefer to hunt. 
 	Some of the best locations for large wind farms are places that may cause problems for migrating birds and birds of prey. 
 	Large wind farms in certain areas kill hawks, falcons, and eagles and thus might create a more ideal path for the flight of migratory birds. 

34. In paragraph 5, why does the author give details about the estimated numbers of birds killed each year?
 	To argue that wind farms should not be built along ridge lines 
 	To point out that the deaths of migratory birds exceed the deaths of birds of prey 
 	To explain why some environmentalists oppose wind energy 
 	To suggest that wind turbines result in relatively few bird deaths 
Paragraph 5 is marked with an arrow  .

35. The phrase amount to in the passage is closest in meaning to
 	can identify 
 	change 
 	are reduced by 
 	total 

36. The word project in the passage is closest in meaning to
 	estimate 
 	respond 
 	argue 
 	plan 

37. Which of the following statements most accurately reflects the author¡¯s opinion about wind energy?
 	Wind energy production should be limited to large wind farms. 
 	The advantages of wind energy outweigh the disadvantages. 
 	The technology to make wind energy safe and efficient will not be ready until the middle of the twenty-first century. 
 	Wind energy will eventually supply many countries with most of their electricity. 

38. Look at the four squares  that indicate where the following sentence could be added to the passage.
Some companies in the power industry are aware of this wider possibility and are planning sizable wind-farm projects in states other than California.
Where would the sentence best fit?
Click on a square  to add the sentence to the passage.

39. Directions: An introductory sentence for a brief summary of the passage is provided below. Complete the summary by selecting the THREE answer choices that express the most important ideas in the passage. Some sentences do not belong in the summarybecause they express ideas that are not presented in the passage or are minor ideas in the passage. This question is worth 2 points.
In the future, wind power is likely to become a major source of the world¡¯s energy supply.
 


 


 

Answer Choices
Wind farms have already produced sufficient amounts of electricity to suggest that wind power could become an important source of electric power.	The wind energy produced by just a small number of states could supply all of the power needs of the United States.
Wind power has several advantages, such as low pollution and projected cost declines, compared to other energy sources.	Although wind power is not economical in areas with steady winds, alternative wind sources can be used to simulate wind power.
Responding to environmentalists concerned about birds killed by wind turbines, analysts point to other human developments that are even more dangerous to birds.	Smaller countries, which use less electricity than large countries, are especially suited to use wind power to meet all their energy needs.

Drag your answer choices to the spaces where they belong. To remove an answer choice, click on it. To review the passage, click on View Text.




































Answers

Reading 1 - Opportunists and Competitors

1.	D - waste 
2.	C - energy 
3.	B - comparing the scientific concept to a familiar human experience 
4.	B - the way in which the organism invests its energy resources 
5.	C - distribution 
6.	A - Because their seeds grow in places where competing plants are no longer present, dandelions are classified as opportunists. 
7.	A - huge 
8.	D - the large number of acorns the tree produces 
9.	B - they spend more energy on their leaves, trunks and roots than on their acorns 
10.	D - have some characteristics of opportunists and some of competitors 
11.	Insert text at square number 3 (C) 
12.	
Table Answer Key 
1	Vary frequently the amount of energy they spend in body maintenance
Not used
2	Have mechanisms for protecting themselves from predation
Answer: Competitors
3	Succeed in locations where other organisms have been removed
Answer: Opportunist
4	Have relatively short life spans
Answer: Opportunist
5	Invest energy in the growth of large, strong structures
Answer: Competitors
6	Have populations that are unstable in response to climate conditions
Answer: Opportunist
7	Can rarely find suitable soil for reproduction
Not used
8	Produce individuals that can withstand changes in the environmental conditions
Answer: Competitors
9	Reproduce in large numbers
Answer: Opportunist
Reading 2 - Lascaux Cave Painting

13.	C - beasts 
14.	A - Ways 
15.	D - Artists developed special techniques for painting the walls. 
16.	B - To contrast the location of their rock paintings to those found at Lascaux 
17.	C - They developed their own sources of light to use while painting. 
18.	C - To suggest a possible explanation for a weakness in an opinion expressed in the passage 
19.	C - were associated with 
20.	C - Because some of the animals are shown wounded by weapons 
21.	D - To give a possible reason for the strange appearance of the men painted on the cave walls 
22.	A - to look like an animal while a hunt took place 
23.	C - Too many years have gone by since the images were painted. 
24.	Insert text at square number 1 (A) 
25.	
o	The paintings may have recorded information about animal migrations, and may only have been useful for one migration at a time. 
o	Some scholars believe that the paintings motivated hunters by allowing them to picture a successful hunt. 
o	It is possible that the animals in the paintings were of mythical significance to the tribe, and the paintings reflected an important spiritual practice. 
Reading 3 - Electricity from Wind

26.	D - Collections of wind turbines producing electric power 
27.	C - release 
28.	B - They contain remote areas where the winds rarely die down. 
29.	B - These periods provide the opportunity to produce and store energy for future use. 
30.	D - backup systems are needed 
31.	B - Possible solutions are known for both problems. 
32.	C - the killing of birds of prey by wind turbines 
33.	C - Some of the best locations for large wind farms are places that may cause problems for migrating birds and birds of prey. 
34.	D - To suggest that wind turbines result in relatively few bird deaths 
35.	D - total 
36.	A - estimate 
37.	B - The advantages of wind energy outweigh the disadvantages. 
38.	Insert text at square number 4 (D) 
39.	
o	Wind farms have already produced sufficient amounts of electricity to suggest that wind power could become an important source of electric power. 
o	Wind power has several advantages, such as low pollution and projected cost declines, compared to other energy sources. 
o	Responding to environmentalists concerned about birds killed by wind turbines, analysts point to other human developments that are even more dangerous to birds. 







Listening Section Directions
The following two screens are delivered before the Listening section directions.
[Put on headset directions]
Now put on your headset.
 
Click on Proceed to continue.
 
[Volume check directions]
Changing the Volume
To change the volume, click on the Volume icon at the top of the screen. The volume control will appear. Move the volume indicator to the left or to the right to change the volume.
To close the volume control, move the mouse pointer to another part of the screen.
You will be able to change the volume during the test if you need to.
You may now change the volume.
When you are finished, click on Dismiss Directions.


Listening Comprehension Section Directions
This section measures your ability to understand conversations and lectures in English. You will hear each conversation or lecture only one time. After each conversation or lecture, you will answer some questions about it. The questions typically ask about the main idea and supporting details. Some questions ask about a speaker's purpose or attitude. Answer the questions based on what is stated or implied by the speakers.
You may take notes while you listen. You may use your notes to help you answer the questions. Your notes will not be scored.
If you need to change the volume while you listen, click on the Volume icon at the top of the screen.
In some questions, you will see this icon:  . This means that you will hear, but not see part of the question.
Some of the questions have special directions. These directions appear in a gray box on the screen.
Most questions are worth one point. If a question is worth more than one point, it will have special directions that indicate how many points you can receive.
You must answer each question. After you answer, click on Next. Then click on OK to confirm your answer and go on to the next question. After you click on OK, you cannot return to previous questions.
You will have 20 minutes to answer the questions in this section. A clock at the top of the screen will show you how much time is remaining. The clock will not count down while you are listening to test material.
Note: In the Listening Section of the actual test, you will both hear and read the questions.









 
Narrator
Listen to part of a lecture in a business class.
 
Professor
OK, uh let¡¯s um, let¡¯s start. Uh, tonight we¡¯re gonna talk about one approach to structuring decision-making on a specific topic, sort of um¡­oh when you¡¯re in a decision-making process in a business situation, and you¡¯ve got all the participants there sort of voicing opinions and negotiating, and there are lots of different factors to consider in your decision¡­uh, the technique we¡¯re gonna talk about is uh, it¡¯s a way to sort of structure that decision and arrive at a better decision. It¡¯s called AHP, or Analytic, um, Analytic Hierarchy Process.
Now, the first step is to develop, a hierarchy by breaking the problem down into its components, and then prioritizing the components, as you¡¯ll see.
Now there¡¯s some AHP software out there that lets you do the math, but I¡¯m not gonna get into that level of detail now. The important thing that I want to talk about is not the mathematics of it so much as the concept.
I, I want you to understand the logic behind Analytic Hierarchy Process and the basic approach.
OK¡­so uh, let¡¯s say, if I was trying to buy a house, a house is actually a pretty good example. It¡¯s not a good example for a business class, necessarily, but it¡¯ll certainly do for today.
You, you start with your main goal. An¡¯ then you break it down into smaller parts. All right¡­so uh, taking our example of, of buying a house¡­I would have to determine the goal for the house-hunting effort, uh choose the house that would be uh,¡­most, well, the best fit for my family. What would be your goal in trying to find a house? Well, uh let¡¯s just say, make the best choice in, in buying a new house. Now, now that¡¯s the goal.
So now that you¡¯ve established a goal, you establish your criteria. And um, under criteria I would list for me what were the important factors that will influence the decision. And¡­they would be things like uh, like the cost. And, uh what else? Uh, location. Location, I think, would typically be one in most of our models, and maybe one more. How about floor plan?¡ªThe layout of the rooms. So, so we have cost, location, floor plan¡­those might be our key criteria for choosing a house.
Then you get down to the subcriteria under each of these three criteria. So, so let¡¯s say, under floor plan, the subcriteria are, you want a big kitchen, 3 bedrooms, a basement. And after you¡¯ve determined all the criteria and subcriteria, um then you go back and you start making pairwise comparisons between them¡­uh, judgments about two of these things at a time. 
Of the houses you¡¯re considering, uh, is cost more important than location or, say, one has a big kitchen but only two bedrooms. Is that OK?
You move through the hierarchy making judgments about 1 pair of choices at a time. You see, it, it it¡¯s designed to reflect the way people actually think¡­humans are much more,¡­capable of making relative rather than absolute judgments. Basically, we¡¯ve reduced a rather complex decision into a series of one-on-one comparisons.
Um, so what AHP does is it requires me to develop a schematic model of what I¡¯m looking for. So, so, right off the bat I have to articulate and think about and identify these factors, these criteria.
And when I start comparing the criteria, these factors, um, it enables me to come up with the relative importance of each factor at a given level in the model. So, in other words, what the model does is it helps us set our priorities, and it forces us to make our priorities explicit. It, it not, not only helps make the best decision, we¡¯re also a lot clearer on why we made the decision. And understanding why we made the decision makes it easier to convince the boss or the shareholders that it¡¯s a good decision.
 
1. What is the talk mainly about?
 	A comparison of two approaches to decision-making 
 	A formula for evaluating business plans 
 	A process for improving decision-making 
 	A method for gaining consensus within groups 
2. In the lecture, the professor describes the steps in AHP. Indicate whether each of the following is a step in the process. Click in the correct box for each phrase.
 	Yes	No
Establish the goal	 	 
List alternative courses of action	 	 
Select key criteria and subcriteria	 	 
Make pairwise comparisons	 	 
Revise the goal based on choices	 	 
 
3. Why does the professor mention the floor plan of a house?
 	To give an example of a factor that would influence a decision 
 	To give a personal example of a time he found AHP to be useful 
 	To show that AHP can be applied to the design of houses 
 	To name some criteria that are not important in decision-making 
4. According to the professor, what is one important result of using AHP?
 	People can make decisions more quickly. 
 	People are provided with several different outcomes. 
 	People can take advantage of the latest technology. 
 	People can better understand the decisions they make. 
5. What does the professor mean when he says this:  
[This text will only be heard.]
Professor
Now there¡¯s some AHP software out there that lets you do the math, but I¡¯m not gonna get into that level of detail now. The important thing that I want to talk about is not the mathematics of it so much as the concept.
 	He wants the students to use the AHP software for an assignment. 
 	He does not think the AHP software is useful. 
 	He wants to give only a general explanation of AHP. 
 	He thinks the students can understand the mathematics without his help. 
 
Narrator
Listen again to part of the lecture. Then answer the question.
 
Professor
Of the houses you¡¯re considering, uh, is cost more important than location or, say, one has a big kitchen but only two bedrooms. Is that OK?
6. Why does the professor say this:  
[This text will only be heard.]
Professor
Is that OK?
 	To express uncertainty about the process 
 	To indicate an example of a decision to be made 
 	To check the students¡¯ understanding of the process 
 	To find out what the students prefer 


Narrator
Listen to part of a conversation between a student and a professor.
 
Student
Hi, Professor Johnson.
Professor
Hi, Anna. What can I do for you?
Student
[upspeak]
Remember, I e-mailed you about getting the handouts from the class I missed the other day, and you said I could stop by and pick them up today.
Professor
Oh, that¡¯s right. [friendly, but seeking an explanation]
You know, that¡¯s the fourth class you¡¯ve missed this semester, and that¡¯s not doing your grade any good.
I assume you had a good reason for being out...
Student
[apologetically]
I know, I really hated to miss another class, but I had the flu, and I could hardly get out of bed. That¡¯ll be the last class I miss, though. I promise.
Professor
[accepting her promise]
Okay...
[sincerely]
So how are you feeling now¡ªare you all recovered?
Student
Well, I¡¯m still not quite a hundred per cent, but I¡¯m feeling much better than I did a few days ago.
Professor
Well, that¡¯s good.
Okay, uh¡­
[regaining train of thought]
oh yes, the handouts. There were three of them, and I¡¯ll get those for you in just a minute. They¡¯re pretty self-explanatory, but if you have any questions, just send me an e-mail.
But...
Student
[interrupting]
Okay, thank you.
Professor
Sure. Uh, but we also watched a video, and we¡¯ll be having an essay question about it on the next exam, so,
[searching for a solution]
uh¡­ [thinking]
Hmmm¡­Do you have a VCR at home?
Student
Actually, I don¡¯t, but I do have access to one.
Professor
Okay¡­Well I can lend it you, but the only thing is, you¡¯d have to watch it tonight and get it back to me early tomorrow, because I¡¯m going to be showing it in the other section of that class tomorrow afternoon.
Student
That¡¯d be great.
Professor
But you really have to get it back to me tomorrow before my class.
Student
No problem. I can drop it off first thing in the morning if you¡¯d like.
Professor
Okay...
[changing his mind]
You know what? How about if we do it this way. I¡¯ll keep it for now and show it in my class tomorrow, and uh then you can drop by here and pick it up on Friday morning and keep it for the whole weekend, and just bring it with you when you come to class next week. How does that sound? Uh then you¡¯ll have a couple of days to watch it, and you won¡¯t have to worry about getting it back here tomorrow.
Student
[checking her schedule in her mind]
Let¡¯s see, Friday morning...
[turning happy when she realizes she can do it]
Yeah, that¡¯ll work.
Professor
Excellent. I¡¯ll be here from about ten to eleven thirty.
Student
[leaving]
Great. I¡¯ll see you then.
Professor
Uh, just a second. Let me get you those handouts.
Student
Oh, yeah. Thank you.
 
Narrator
Now get ready to answer the questions. You may use your notes to help you answer.
7. Why does the woman go to see her professor?
 	To get materials for a class she missed 
 	To discuss an assignment she is working on 
 	To ask a question about a video her class recently watched 
 	To inform the professor of changes in her schedule 
8. Why does the professor change his mind about when he will lend the woman the video?
 	He remembers that he does not have the video in his office. 
 	He realizes that the woman does not have a VCR. 
 	He is worried that he will not have the video back in time for his class. 
 	He realizes that he will not need the video until the following week. 
9. Why will the woman stop by the professor¡¯s office on Friday morning?
 	To return the video to the professor 
 	To get the video from the professor 
 	To hand in an assignment to the professor 
 	To discuss the handouts with the professor 
 
Narrator
Listen again to part of the conversation. Then answer the question.
 
Professor
You know, that¡¯s the fourth class you¡¯ve missed this semester, and that¡¯s not doing your grade any good.
I assume you had a good reason for being out...
10. Why does the professor say this:  
[This text will only be heard.]
Professor
I assume you had a good reason for being out...
 	To indicate that he is not concerned about the woman¡¯s absence 
 	To assure the woman that her absence will not affect her grade 
 	To indicate that he has finished discussing the woman¡¯s absence 
 	To encourage the woman to explain why she was absent 
 

Narrator
Listen again to part of the conversation. Then answer the question.
 
Professor
Okay, uh... 
[regaining train of thought]
oh yes, the handouts. There were three of them, and I¡¯ll get those for you in just a minute. They¡¯re pretty self-explanatory, but if you have any questions, just send me an e-mail.
11. What can be inferred about the professor?
 	He is not planning to talk about the handouts now. 
 	He expects the woman to respond to questions in the handouts. 
 	He is concerned that the handouts may be difficult to understand. 
 	He is not sure if he has the handouts the woman needs. 


 
Narrator
Listen to part of a talk in a history class.
 
Professor
Okay, uh, so last time we were talking about the expansion of the railroad in the nineteenth century¡ªwhy it was so important in the development of the southwestern United States. Uh, we talked about a couple of things: the railroad brought about land speculation, and development of lands for timber and farming and¡ªwell, and this is what I want to talk about today¡ªthe railroads brought tourists. They traveled by train, viewing the landscape, and uh, came to get a taste of what the ¡°Wild West¡± was like. In the past 100 years, a whole tourism industry has grown up around this idea. And uh, just like¡­ranching, or gold mining, it helped to integrate the Southwest into the economy of the rest of the country¡­uh, tourism helped integrate the ¡°culture¡± or life in the Southwest into¡­well, well kind of into the minds of the rest of the country. And large-scale tourism couldn¡¯t have happened without the expansion of the railroad.
So, the railroad brought tourists, and tourists brought some changes that I think are really interesting. Uh, the thing about tourism that you should know first, and this has been determined by sociologists¡­sociologists say that tourists look for the familiar. Most tourists don¡¯t go someplace looking for new things. They go looking for things they already know something about. Tourists will have some sense of the culture of a place¡ªmaybe based on a stereotype or a generalization¡ªbut but that¡¯s what they expect to see. And places that¡ªdeal with tourism, create things knowing this¡ªthey create what tourists are looking for. Take the Grand Canyon Railway¡­any of you been on it? Well, this is a train that takes tourists to the Grand Canyon, and while you¡¯re on the train, you see fake shootouts and gunfights. Now, the railroad running to the Grand Canyon was never actually robbed. But tourists have this idea that this was what things were like in the ¡°Wild West,¡± you know, gunfights and train robberies, and the tourist railway wants to make them happy. There¡¯s a great term for this¡­it¡¯s called staged authenticity.
In other words, people go to the Grand Canyon to see this fantastic natural landscape but they also want to get a sense of what it was like there during the real ¡°Wild West.¡± Well, the railway knows this, so they try to re-create some of that cultural history. And, oh, and we also see this at the Grand Canyon with the creation of Hopi House. Have any of you visited Hopi House?
Student A
I went there last year.
Professor
Could you tell the class what it was like?
Student A
Yeah¡­it¡¯s kind of a, a big gift shop¡­where they sell traditional crafts¡ªjewelry, pottery... stuff like that. And supposedly it¡¯s really made by Hopi people, the people who live there.
Professor
Anything else? What about the architecture?
Student A
Oh, right. It¡¯s an unusual building¡­it¡¯s supposed to look like a real Hopi building, I think.
Professor
Good, I noticed the same things. Now I¡¯m not saying Hopi House is a fraud¡ªthe stuff they sell really is made by Hopi artists--but it¡¯s still an example of staged authenticity. Something I bet you didn¡¯t know¡­the Hopis never actually lived in, or even near, the Grand Canyon. There was another Native American people who lived in the Canyon, known as the Havasupi [hah-va-SOOP-ee]. But the tourist company that ran the place¡ªit was called the Harvey Company¡ªdecided to hire the Hopi instead of the Havasupi. Can anyone guess why?
Student B
Were the Hopi better artists? I mean, did they make better things?
Professor
Not really. The way I understand it, the people at the Harvey Company were very good at making money, and they figured that the Hopi people and the Hopi crafts would sell better to the tourists. So they built Hopi House, and hired the Hopi people to work there and uh, one of those people, uh, a famous Hopi potter, was hired by the Harvey Company and she worked to rebuild, or or kind of restructure, the Hopi pottery. It¡¯s not sure whether this was her own doing or whether she was instructed to do this but¡­ archaeologists working at ancient sites in the Southwest uncovered pottery and she started copying the same style. 
And, well there¡¯s some debate about that/¡­whether it was her idea or whether she was told to do it. 
Either way, before you know it Hopi pottery was changing. It¡¯s, it¡¯s another case of the contradictions of staged authenticity¡ªcertainly the Hopi pottery you buy there is real. I mean, it does represent the pottery of the Southwest. But the Hopi people are not the traditional inhabitants of the Canyon, and their art gets affected by the tourist market¡ªthe the Harvey Company basically changed history to make money.
 
Narrator
Now get ready to answer the questions. You may use your notes to help you answer.
12. What is the talk mainly about?
 	The differences between the traditions of the Hopi and Havasupi people 
 	The relationship between tourism and Southwestern cultural history 
 	The impact of Native American crafts on Grand Canyon tourism 
 	How tourism in the Southwest has changed in the past 100 years 
13. Why does the professor mention the expansion of the railroad in the nineteenth century?
 	To emphasize the importance of the railroad to the development of farming in the Southwest 
 	To explain the increased mobility of Native American peoples 
 	To provide background for a discussion of Southwestern tourism 
 	To give an example of the dangers tourists faced in the Southwest 
14. What does the professor say about the Grand Canyon Railway?
 	It is the only way to travel to the Grand Canyon. 
 	It provides entertainment for passengers. 
 	Its passengers often consider it to be too slow. 
 	It is owned and operated by the Hopi people. 
15. According to the professor, what does Hopi House demonstrate?
 	Two Native American groups share control of the Grand Canyon tourist industry. 
 	The history portrayed by the tourist industry is not always accurate. 
 	Native American art and culture have not been influenced by tourism. 
 	The Grand Canyon Railway has benefited many Native American groups. 
16. What does the professor say about the pottery now sold at Hopi House?
 	It is made in another country and imported to the United States. 
 	It is less expensive than pottery sold elsewhere in the area. 
 	It is produced by the traditional inhabitants of the Grand Canyon. 
 	Its style has been influenced by ancient pottery found in the Southwest. 
 

Narrator
Listen again to part of the lecture. Then answer the question.
 
Professor
archaeologists working at ancient sites in the Southwest uncovered pottery and she started copying the same style. 
And, well there¡¯s some debate about that/¡­whether it was her idea or whether she was told to do it.
17. Why does the professor say this:  
[This text will only be heard.]
Professor
¡°And, well there¡¯s some debate about that¡±
 	To express uncertainty about the facts 
 	To criticize the company¡¯s decision 
 	To explain that the story is not true 
 	To encourage students to express their opinions 

 
Narrator
Listen to part of a lecture in a biology class.
 
Professor
So today we¡¯re gonna talk about song development in birds and how¡ªyou may be surprised to know¡ªthe songs of most songbird species are learned¡ªnot completely instinctual¡ªwhich is what we used to think¡­so I¡¯d like to start things off today by, um, centering our discussion on the chaffinch.
The chaffinch is a type of European songbird, and we¡¯re gonna use the chaffinch¡¯s song development as illustrative of songbirds¡¯ song development in general, because many other songbirds follow this same pattern, this pattern of learning songs.
Okay, so soon after hatching, baby chaffinches start producing these, um, begging sounds, begging calls, actually, which basically are a message to the parents saying, ¡°Feed me; feed me.¡± That¡¯s all for about the first five weeks, until they grow feathers and start getting ready to fly, you know, become fledglings, and then those calls¡ªthose begging sounds¡ªare replaced by, uh, well¡­you know how babies¡ªhuman babies¡ªyou know how they make that¡­baby¡­babbling sound? Like little, soft, vocalized¡­murmurings? Well, that¡¯s pretty much similar to the noises that fledgling chaffinches make at this next stage of development¡­which is called subsong¡­
¡°Subsong¡± makes sense, right, because ¡°sub¡± means ¡°below,¡± and so the subsong is¡­uh, below, or¡­happens before their mature song, right? It¡¯s an immature, or underdeveloped song, a baby song. Make sense?
Okay, now, they¡¯re not begging for food anymore with the subsong. So what do you figure they¡¯re making these soft murmurings for? Well, it¡¯s at this stage¡ªwhat we call early subsong¡ªthat, and this is important, the chaffinch¡¯s subsong begins to provide auditory feedback from which the chaffinch learns, and so...self-learning is taking place, because the fledgling hears itself calling out, hears the sounds it¡¯s making, you know, hears, hears its subsong, and so, it¡¯s kinda¡¯ comparing it to the parent¡¯s song and so self-learning is taking place, um, through this process¡­get it?¡­
Alright. Now, as the chaffinch gets a little older, it enters into what could be called late subsong where parts of its subsong start sounding more and more like its parent¡¯s song, 
and we have the next step in song development taking place in late subsong, that is, the introduction of plastic song within the subsong--plastic song referring to¡ªI don¡¯t have to write that on the board, do I?
¡ªreferring to the parts of the subsong that sound like the parent¡¯s song.
Plastic song. Does that sound a little strange to you? Well, keep in mind that ¡°plastic¡± has, um, formative implications, you know, it can mean, like, growth, or development into something
¡­like what the chaffinch¡¯s song is doing¡­it¡¯s developing into its parent¡¯s song¡­it¡¯s, uh, not quite fully realized yet¡ªit doesn¡¯t sound precisely like its parent¡¯s song¡ªremember this is still the subsong stage we¡¯re talking about¡ªbut it¡¯s on its way, the fledgling is still learning, imitating parts of its parent¡¯s song, just not quite the whole thing yet.
So. The fledgling gets older and now it¡¯s winter, and during the winter, the young chaffinch doesn¡¯t practice its singing. But in the spring, the chaffinch starts back up again, singing and practicing, and this time there is more of an emergence of plastic song, ah¡­a stronger presence of it within the subsong, and so thereby, the parent¡¯s song is growing increasingly more recognizable and distinct, follow? Then, after about a month, the young chaffinch¡¯s song crystallizes into what¡¯s called full song¡ªthe, um, exact song the adults sing. So full song¡¯s, uh, a full-blown imitation of the adult song. Alright?
Now what¡¯s interesting is that chaffinches are able to complete this process, even from only a short exposure to their parents¡¯ song. Exposure during the first few weeks of life is really all they need, and after that they can remember it, even though they need quite a bit of practice to produce it accurately themselves. So the theory is that there is a sensitive period in the chaffinch¡¯s early life, its early development, a special sensitive period during which it learns what its song should sound like. So chaffinches, um, along with many other birds, learn songs early in life, and when they become adults, they don¡¯t change their songs¡ªit¡¯s a copy of the parents¡¯ song, like we said, okay?
 

Narrator
Now get ready to answer the questions. You may use your notes to help you answer.
18. What aspect of a chaffinch¡¯s song does the professor mainly discuss?
 	How it is used to beg for food 
 	How it has changed over several generations 
 	How its development differs from that of other songbirds 
 	How it develops from an early age 
19. What does the professor say about plastic song?
 	It imitates only parts of the parent¡¯s song. 
 	It is identical to subsong. 
 	It is instinctual and does not need to be learned. 
 	It represents the final stage in a chaffinch¡¯s song development. 
20. What is the evidence for chaffinches¡¯ having a sensitive period for song learning?
 	They begin to practice their song in the spring. 
 	They do not develop full song until their second year. 
 	They need little exposure to adult song in order to learn it. 
 	They do not make many sounds for the first five weeks of their lives. 
 

Narrator
Listen again to part of the lecture. Then answer the question.
 
Professor
--and we have the next step in song development taking place in late subsong, that is, the introduction of plastic song within the subsong--
plastic song
referring to--I don¡¯t have to write that on the board, do I?
21. What does the professor imply when she says this:  
[This text will only be heard.]
Professor
I don¡¯t have to write that on the board, do I?
 	The words in the term are probably familiar to the students. 
 	The term is not important to the lecture. 
 	The students should have studied the term already. 
 	The students should have written the term down already. 
22. Why does the professor say this:  
[This text will only be heard.]
Professor
Plastic song. Does that sound a little strange to you? Well, keep in mind that ¡°plastic¡± has, um, formative implications, you know, it can mean, like, growth, or development into something
 	To correct something she said earlier 
 	To explain a term she just introduced 
 	To explain what is wrong with a particular theory 
 	To remind the students of something discussed earlier 
23. How does the professor introduce her description of the sounds a chaffinch makes during subsong?
 	She contrasts the subsong of a chaffinch with the subsongs of other songbird species. 
 	She compares the sounds a chaffinch makes to those a human baby makes. 
 	She describes the sound of an adult chaffinch¡¯s full song. 
 	She reminds the class how scientists define begging calls. 

 
Narrator
Listen to part of a discussion in an astronomy class. The professor is discussing Pluto.
 
Professor
Well, today I thought we¡¯d talk about some of the reasons why Pluto¡¯s status as a planet has been debated. You see, until recently what makes a planet a planet was one of the simpler concepts in astronomy. It¡¯s always been deemed so, uh¡­so obvious, so¡­ basic that it was never officially defined¡­So anyway,¡­uh improvements in telescopes and related technology have led to a whole host of discoveries in our solar system¡­with one result being that now even the generally accepted idea of what a planet is is being challenged¡­or at least qualified. And this directly affects the status of Pluto.
Student A
So what makes Pluto so different that it could be, um¡­reclassified?
Professor
Well, actually, there are several important differences between Pluto and the other planets. First, when you look at the other planets, especially the planets in the outer solar system, where Pluto orbits, you see that Pluto stands out, it¡¯s the oddball¡­and I¡¯ll give you one guess why.
 
Student B
It¡¯s gotta be the size¡­Jupiter, Saturn and uh, Uranus and Neptune,¡­they¡¯re the gas giants, and, well, Pluto isn¡¯t.
Professor
Exactly,¡­uh compared to the gas giants, Pluto¡¯s very different,¡­it¡¯s neither gaseous nor a giant. See, uh Pluto is less than half the size of the next smallest planet, Mercury. It¡¯s even smaller than our moon¡­and smaller than other moons in our solar system. So Pluto is very small for a planet,¡­maybe it¡¯s not large enough to be considered a planet.
 
Student A
But Pluto orbits the Sun and¡­I mean¡­well, that¡¯s one of the things planets do.
Professor
You¡¯re right¡­Most people agree that a planet orbits a sun, and Pluto certainly does that¡­every 248 years, but with a highly eccentric orbit. Take a look at this:
What I mean when I say ¡®eccentric¡¯ is¡­it¡¯s not like the other planets¡¯ orbits, instead it¡¯s different in uh, two major ways. One, it¡¯s elliptical, but the others are nearly circular. So for part of its orbit, Pluto is closer to the Sun than Neptune and for the rest it¡¯s farther away. And two, Pluto orbits on a different plane. That is, all the planets orbit the Sun on the same plane, except Pluto¡­which orbits at a seventeen degree angle to the other orbits. Do you see where it looks like it crosses the other orbits?
Student A
[interrupting]
But I don¡¯t see why being small and having an unusual orbit would change Pluto¡¯s status. I mean it still has most of the features that the other planets have, doesn¡¯t it? It¡¯s got an atmosphere, granted it¡¯s thin, but it¡¯s there. It even has a moon!
Professor
That¡¯s true. In fact, if it wasn¡¯t for the discovery of the Kuiper belt rhymes with ¡°piper¡±, there probably wouldn¡¯t be a question about Pluto¡¯s status¡­.
[questioning sounds by the students]
Student B
It¡¯s¡­I¡¯m sorry, the what belt?
Professor
Uh, it¡¯s the Kuiper belt.
It¡¯s like a swarm of icy-rocky objects out beyond Neptune. It turns out that Kuiper belt objects, which are also called KBOs, have a lot in common with Pluto.
For one, KBOs and Pluto are made of the same stuff, namely rock and ice. And for most of its orbit, Pluto is in the Kuiper belt. 
Remember when I said that Pluto has an eccentric orbit? Well, many KBOs do, too,¡­for the same reason,¡­their orbits are influenced by Neptune¡¯s gravity. Now, without going into too much detail,¡­let me just say that Neptune¡¯s gravity sort of pulls Pluto and the KBOs around¡­this results in orbits that are elliptical and almost exactly one and one half times longer than Neptune¡¯s.
In light of these similarities, some suggest that Pluto¡¯s merely the largest KBO found to date. Now, I¡¯m saying this because several other large Kuiper belt objects have been found, some half as large as Pluto. Some scientists believe that they might find other KBOs as large as Pluto¡­
Student B
So you¡¯re saying that Pluto¡¯s more like a KBO than a planet?
Student A
Yeah¡­I mean, considering everything you just said, um, if Pluto were discovered today, would it even¡­well,¡­would it even be called a planet?
Professor
Well, let¡¯s see. You tell me.
Student A
Hmmm, well¡­I¡¯d still call it a planet. Like I said before¡­it may be small, but it¡¯s got an atmosphere and a moon, it orbits the Sun and¡­
Student B
[interrupting]
Come on¡­it, it¡¯s obviously a KBO. I mean, it¡¯s in the Kuiper belt, it¡¯s made of the same materials, it orbits the same way and it¡¯s way smaller than any other planet. I think it¡¯s clear
Professor
Well, nobody knew about the Kuiper belt when Pluto was discovered, so they called it a planet. But now? I think its status will continue to be questioned until there¡¯s an official definition for planet.
 
24. What is the discussion mainly about?
 	Why most planets are larger than Pluto 
 	The reasons some objects may soon be considered planets 
 	How Pluto challenges the conventional idea of a planet 
 	The discovery of Kuiper belt objects 
25. How does the professor emphasize his point about Pluto¡¯s size?
 	By stating the dimensions of nearby planets 
 	By explaining the relationship between Pluto¡¯s size and its orbit 
 	By identifying the reasons why Pluto was originally misclassified 
 	By comparing Pluto to other planets and objects in the solar system 
26. What are two key features of Pluto¡¯s orbit mentioned in the discussion?
Click on 2 answers.
 	Pluto¡¯s orbit is influenced by Neptune¡¯s gravity. 
 	Pluto¡¯s orbit is nearly circular. 
 	Pluto¡¯s orbit is at an angle to the other planets¡¯ orbits. 
 	Pluto¡¯s orbit passes nearer to the Sun than most of the other planets. 
27. According to the discussion, what are some reasons for NOT classifying Pluto as a planet?
Click on 3 answers.
 	It has an atmosphere. 
 	It is located in the Kuiper belt. 
 	It is composed of rock and ice. 
 	It is located too far from the Sun. 
 	It is much smaller than the other planets. 
 

Narrator
Listen again to part of the lecture. Then answer the question.
 
Professor
¡­When you look at the other planets, especially the planets in the outer solar system, where Pluto orbits, you see that Pluto stands out, it¡¯s the oddball¡­and I¡¯ll give you one guess why.
28. What does the professor mean when he says this:  
[This text will only be heard.]
Professor
¡°I¡¯ll give you one guess why.¡±
 	He thinks the question is difficult to answer. 
 	He thinks the reason is obvious. 
 	He does not expect a reply. 
 	He does not want many people to reply. 
 

Narrator
Listen again to part of the lecture. Then answer the question.
 
Student A
Hmmm, well¡­I¡¯d still call it a planet. Like I said before¡­it may be small, but it¡¯s got an atmosphere and a moon, it orbits the Sun and¡­
Student B
Come on¡­it, it¡¯s obviously a KBO. I mean, it¡¯s in the Kuiper belt, it¡¯s made of the same materials, it orbits the same way and it¡¯s way smaller than any other planet. I think it¡¯s clear.
29. What can be inferred about the students?
 	They both disagree with the professor¡¯s conclusion. 
 	The woman has not yet reached a conclusion about Pluto. 
 	The man easily convinced the woman to change her mind. 
 	They have come to different conclusions about Pluto. 

 
Narrator
Listen to part of a conversation in a library.
Librarian
Hi. Can I help you?
Student
Yeah, I¡¯m looking for a reference book.
Librarian
OK. Do you know the title?
Student
Well, that¡¯s the thing. I¡¯m not exactly sure what I¡¯m looking for. I need uh, information on European demographics.
Librarian
OK, do you just need population statistics, like, total population, male-female¡­real basics for demographics?
Student
Yeah. Population, literacy rate, uh, let¡¯s see¡­life expectancy by gender, like if women tend to live longer than men¡­things like that.
Librarian
OK, well, I-I¡¯m pretty sure you can get most¡ªif not all¡ªof those statistics from an atlas. I can tell you where to find one in the reference section.
Student
Yeah, but I¡¯m kind of looking for it by city, not by country and the atlas I saw¡­
Librarian
[understanding the problem]
Uh huh¡­I see¡­
Student
Well, do you know if there are any other reference books I can use for this? To find the statistics by city?
Librarian
[stumped, but trying to think of something]
City, you say.
Any particular part of Europe? Eastern, western¡­southern?
Student
No. Pretty much all across Europe.
Librarian
[Unsure she will be able to help]
All of Europe. Hmmm.
Y-you know, maybe you could tell me what this is for, I mean, maybe if-if I know, I can help you better.
Student
Yeah, OK. Geography with Professor Miller and it¡¯s sort of an analysis of, uh, urban areas, a comparison of population trends and uh economic indicators, social indicators, I guess¡­
Librarian
[running out of ideas]
OK, well, there¡¯s something called the Demographic Yearbook, but it¡¯s¡ªbut I don¡¯t think it¡¯s gonna do it by city.
Student
Yeah, I think that¡¯s just by country.
Librarian
You¡¯ve already looked at it? I think, I-I think you¡¯re right, but I¡¯m just gonna check it first, ¡¯cause it would be easy if it were there.
[looking through the book]
Yeah. Population. By country¡­OK let¡¯s see. Did you, I mean, did your professor give you any ideas on where to look? I mean, because, if you need the demographic information by city¡­
Student
No, she-she didn¡¯t. She just gave us the assignment and I figured I could find what I needed here without too much of a problem.
Librarian
Yeah, it should be easier than this. I mean, I know there¡¯s one for North American cities, but I don¡¯t think that¡¯ll be a big help.
Student
Nah.
Librarian
Tell you what. Let¡¯s go over to the reference section. Let¡¯s take a look around that area and see if anything looks promising.
 
 
Narrator
Now get ready to answer the questions. You may use your notes to help you answer.
30. What does the man need from the library?
 	A research study written by his professor 
 	Demographic information about people living in Europe 
 	Information on research methods in demographics 
 	A specific geography reference book 
31. What does the man imply about the atlas he looked at?
 	It does not list population statistics by city. 
 	It does not list population statistics by country. 
 	It contains information about Europe that is out of date. 
 	It lacks information on southern Europe. 
32. What is an example the man gives of the kind of information he needs about European cities?
 	Their climate 
 	Their geographic size 
 	How long people live 
 	What languages people speak 
33. Where will the man and woman look for the information the man needs?
 	In a different library 
 	In Professor Miller¡¯s office 
 	In the geography department 
 	In the reference section of the library 
 

Narrator
Listen again to part of the conversation. Then answer the question.
 
Librarian
Any particular part of Europe? Eastern, western¡­southern?
Student
No. Pretty much all across Europe.
Librarian
[Unsure she will be able to help]
All of Europe. Hmmm.
34. What does the woman mean when she says this:  
[This text will only be heard.]

Narrator
What does the woman mean when she says this:
Librarian
[Unsure she will be able to help]
All of Europe. Hmmm.
 	She knows which book the man needs. 
 	She is too busy to find the information for the man. 
 	She is not sure she has heard the man correctly. 
 	She is not sure she can find the information the man needs. 














Answers
Listening 1 - Business

1.	C - A process for improving decision-making 
2.	
 	Yes	No
Establish the goals	X	 
List alternative courses of action	 	X
Select key criteria and subcriteria	X	 
Make pairwise comparisons	X	 
Revise the goals based on choices	 	X
3.	A - To give an example of a factor that would influence a decision 
4.	D - People can better understand the decisions they make. 
5.	C - He wants to give only a general explanation of AHP. 
6.	B - To indicate an example of a decision to be made. 
Listening 2 - Missed Classes
7.	A - To get materials for a class she missed 
8.	C - He is worried that he will not have the video back in time for his class. 
9.	B - To get the video from the professor 
10.	D - To encourage the woman to explain why she was absent. 
11.	A - He is not planning to talk about the handouts now. 
Listening 3 - History
12.	B - The relationship between tourism and Southwestern cultural history 
13.	C - To provide background for a discussion of Southwestern tourism 
14.	B - It provides entertainment for passengers. 
15.	B - The history portrayed by the tourist industry is not always accurate. 
16.	D - Its style has been influenced by ancient pottery found in the Southwest. 
17.	A - To express uncertainty about the facts 
Listening 4 - Biology
18.	D - How it develops from an early age 
19.	A - It imitates only parts of the parent's song. 
20.	C - They need little exposure to adult song in order to learn it. 
21.	A - The words in the term are probably familiar to the students. 
22.	B - To explain a term she just introduced 
23.	B - She compares the sounds a chaffinch makes to those a human baby makes. 
Listening 5 - Astronomy
24.	C - How Pluto challenges the conventional idea of a planet 
25.	D - By comparing Pluto to other planets and objects in the solar system 
26.	
X	1. Pluto's orbit is influenced by Neptune's gravity.
 	2. Pluto's orbit is nearly circular.
X	3. Pluto's orbit is at an angle to the other planets' orbits.
 	4. Pluto's orbit passes nearer to the Sun than most of the other planets
27.	
 	1. Its has atmosphere.
X	2. It is located in the Kuiper belt.
X	3. It is composed of rock and ice.
 	4. It is located too far from the Sun.
X	5. It is much smaller than the other planets.
28.	B - He thinks the reason is obvious. 
29.	D - They have come to different conclusions about Pluto. 
Listening 6 - Demographic Information
30.	B - Demographic information about people living in Europe 
31.	A - It does not list population statistics by city. 
32.	C - How long people live 
33.	D - In the reference section of the library 
34.	D - She is not sure she can find the information the man needs. 




























[Microphone check, delivered before Speaking section directions]
Adjusting the Microphone
In order to adjust your microphone volume, please answer the practice question below, using your normal voice tone and volume. The microphone volume will be automatically adjusted as you speak.
Begin speaking after the beep. Continue speaking until a message appears.
"Describe the city you live in."
































Speaking Section Directions
In this section of the test, you will be able to demonstrate your ability to speak about a variety of topics. You will answer six questions by speaking into the microphone. Answer each of the questions as completely as possible.
In questions one and two, you will speak about familiar topics. Your response will be scored on your ability to speak clearly and coherently about the topics.
In questions three and four, you will first read a short text. The text will go away and you will then listen to a talk on the same topic. You will then be asked a question about what you have read and heard. You will need to combine appropriate information from the test and the talk to provide a complete answer to the question. Your response will be scored on your ability to speak clearly and coherently and on your ability to accurately convey information about what you read and heard.
In questions five and six, you will listen to part of a conversation or a lecture. You will then be asked a question about what you heard. Your response will be scored on your ability to speak clearly and coherently and on your ability to accurately convey information about what you heard.
You may take notes while you read and while you listen to the conversations and lectures. You may use your notes to help prepare your response.
Listen carefully to the directions for each question. The directions will not be written on the screen.
For each question you will be given a short time to prepare your response. A clock will show how much preparation time is remaining. When the preparation time is up, you will be told to begin your response. A clock will show how much response time is remaining. A message will appear on the screen when the response time has ended.







Please Listen Carefully
 
Narrator
Describe a class you have taken in school and explain why the class was important to you. Include details and examples to support your explanation.
Please begin speaking after the beep.
[2 secs beep]
[Appearing on screen]
1. Describe a class you have taken in school and explain why the class was important to you. Include details and examples to support your explanation.
________________________________________
Preparation time:	15 seconds
Response time:	45 seconds










Please Listen Carefully
 
Narrator
You may begin to prepare your response after the beep.
[2 secs beep]
Narrator
Some universities require first-year students to live in dormitories on campus. Others allow students to live off campus. Which policy do you think is better for first-year students and why? Include details and examples in your explanation.
Please begin speaking after the beep.
[2 secs beep]
[Appearing on screen]
2. Some universities require first-year students to live in dormitories on campus. Others allow students to live off campus. Which policy do you think is better for first-year students and why? Include details and examples in your explanation.
________________________________________
Preparation time:	15 seconds
Response time:	45 seconds




Please Listen Carefully
 
Narrator
You may begin to prepare your response after the beep.
[2 secs beep]
Narrator
City University is planning to increase tuition and fees. Read the announcement about the increase from the president of City University. You will have 45 seconds to read the announcement. Begin reading now.
Reading Time: 45 seconds
Announcement from the president
The university has decided to increase tuition and fees for all students by approximately 8 percent next semester. For the past 5 years, the tuition and fees have remained the same, but it is necessary to increase them now for several reasons. The university has many more students than we had five years ago, and we must hire additional professors to teach these students. We have also made a new commitment to research and technology, and will be renovating and upgrading our laboratory facilities to better meet our students¡¯ needs.
Narrator
Now listen to two students as they discuss the announcement.
[2 seconds]
 
Student A
Oh great, now we have to come up with more money for next semester.
Student B
Yeah, I know, but I can see why. When I first started here, classes were so much smaller than they are now. With this many students, it¡¯s hard to get the personal attention you need...
Student A
Yeah, I guess you¡¯re right. You know, in some classes I can¡¯t even get a seat. And I couldn¡¯t take the math course I wanted to because it was already full when I signed up.
Student B
And the other thing is, well, I am kind of worried about not being able to get a job after I graduate.
Student A
Why? I mean you¡¯re doing really well in your classes, aren¡¯t you?
Student B
I¡¯m doing ok, but the facilities here are so limited. There are some great new experiments in microbiology that we can¡¯t even do here... there isn¡¯t enough equipment in the laboratories, and the equipment they have is out of date. How am I going to compete for jobs with people who have practical research experience? I think the extra tuition will be a good investment.
[2 seconds]
Narrator
The woman expresses her opinion of the announcement made by the university president. State her opinion and explain the reasons she gives for holding that opinion.
Please begin speaking after the beep.
[2 secs beep]
 
[Appearing on screen]
3. The woman expresses her opinion of the announcement made by the university president. State her opinion and explain the reasons she gives for holding that opinion.
________________________________________
Preparation time:	30 seconds
Response time:	60 seconds











Narrator
Please Listen Carefully
 
Narrator
You may begin to prepare your response after the beep.
[2 secs beep]
Narrator
Now read the passage about animal domestication. You have 45 seconds to read the passage. Begin reading now.
Reading Time: 45 seconds
Animal Domestication
For thousands of years, humans have been able to domesticate, or tame, many large mammals that in the wild live together in herds. Once tamed, these mammals are used for agricultural work and transportation. Yet some herd mammals are not easily domesticated.
A good indicator of an animal¡¯s suitability for domestication is how protective the animal is of its territory. Non-territorial animals are more easily domesticated than territorial animals because they can live close together with animals from other herds. A second indicator is that animals with a hierarchical social structure, in which herd members follow a leader, are easy to domesticate, since a human can function as the ¡°leader¡±.
Narrator
Now listen to part of a lecture on this topic in an ecology class.
[2 seconds]
 
Professor
So we¡¯ve been discussing the suitability of animals for domestication... particularly animals that live together in herds. Now, if we take horses, for example... in the wild, horses live in herds that consist of one male and several females and their young. When a herd moves, the dominant male leads, with the dominant female and her young immediately behind him. The dominant female and her young are then followed immediately by the second most important female and her young, and so on. This is why domesticated horses can be harnessed one after the other in a row. They¡¯re ¡°programmed¡± to follow the lead of another horse. On top of that, you often find different herds of horses in the wild occupying overlapping areas--they don¡¯t fight off other herds that enter the same territory.
But it¡¯s exactly the opposite with an animal like the uh, the antelope... which... well, antelopes are herd animals too. But unlike horses, a male antelope will fight fiercely to prevent another male from entering its territory during the breeding season, ok--very different from the behavior of horses. Try keeping a couple of male antelopes together in a small space and see what happens. Also, antelopes don¡¯t have a social hierarchy--they don¡¯t instinctively follow any leader. That makes it harder for humans to control their behavior.
[2 seconds]
Narrator
The professor describes the behavior of horses and antelope in herds. Explain how their behavior is related to their suitability for domestication.
Please begin speaking after the beep.
[2 secs beep]
 
[Appearing on screen]
4. The professor describes the behavior of horses and antelope in herds. Explain how their behavior is related to their suitability for domestication.
________________________________________
Preparation time:	30 seconds
Response time:	60 seconds



















Narrator
Please Listen Carefully
 
Narrator
You may begin to prepare your response after the beep.
[2 secs beep]
Narrator
Now listen to a conversation between two students.
 
Student A
Hey Lisa, how¡¯s it going?
Student B
Hi Mark. Uh, I¡¯m OK, I guess, but my schoolwork is really stressing me out.
Student A
[sympathetically]
Yeah? What¡¯s wrong?
Student B
Well, I¡¯ve got a paper to write, and two exams to study for. And a bunch of math problems to finish. It¡¯s just so much that I can¡¯t concentrate on any of it. I start concentrating on studying for one of my exams, and then I¡¯m like, how long¡¯s it gonna take to finish that problem set?
Student A
Wow sounds like you¡¯ve got a lot more work than you can handle right now. [Not wanting to sound too pushy] Look have you talked to some of your professors...I mean, you know , try to explain the problem. Look, you could probably get an extension on your paper, or on the math assignment...
Student B
You think? It would give me a little more time to prepare for my exams right now.
Student A
Well, I mean another thing that you might do ... I mean have you tried making yourself a schedule? I mean that¡¯s what I do when I¡¯m feeling overwhelmed.
Student B
What does that do for you?
Student A
Well, I mean it helps you to focus your energies. You know, you make yourself a chart that shows the next few days and the time till your stuff is due and...
Student B
Uh-huh [meaning ¡°I¡¯m listening¡±]
Student A
I mean think about what you need to do, and when you have to do it by. You know then start filling in your schedule--like, all right 9:00 [nine] to 11:30 [eleven-thirty] A.M., study for exam. 12:00 [twelve] to 3:00 [three], work on problem set. But I mean don¡¯t make the time periods too long. Like, don¡¯t put in eight hours of studying--you know, you¡¯ll get tired, or start worrying about your other work again. But if you keep to your schedule, you know you¡¯ll just have to worry about one thing at a time.
Student B
Yeah, that might work. [somewhat noncommitally]
Narrator
The students discuss two possible solutions to the woman¡¯s problem. Describe the problem. Then state which of the two solutions you prefer and explain why.
Please begin speaking after the beep.
[2 secs beep]
 
[Appearing on screen]
5. The students discuss two possible solutions to the woman¡¯s problem. Describe the problem. Then state which of the two solutions you prefer and explain why.
________________________________________
Preparation time:	20 seconds
Response time:	60 seconds











Narrator
Please Listen Carefully
 
Narrator
You may begin to prepare your response after the beep.
[2 secs beep]
Narrator
Now listen to part of a talk in a United States history class.
 
Professor
Because the United States is such a large country, it took time for a common national culture to emerge. A hundred years ago there was very little communication among the different regions of the United States. One result of this lack of communication was that people around the United States had very little in common with one another. People in different parts of the country spoke differently, dressed differently, and behaved differently. But connections among Americans began to increase thanks to two technological innovations: the automobile and the radio.
Now automobiles began to be mass produced in the 1920¡¯s, which meant they became less expensive and more widely available. Americans in small towns and rural communities now had the ability to travel easily to nearby cities. They could even take vacations to other parts of the country. This increased mobility that automobiles provided changed people¡¯s attitudes and created links that hadn¡¯t existed before. For example, people in small towns began to adopt behaviors, clothes, and speech that were popular in big cities or in other parts of the country. As more Americans were purchasing cars, radio ownership was also increasing dramatically. Americans in different regions of the country began to listen to the same popular radio programs and the same musical artists. People repeated things they heard on the radio--some phrases and speech patterns they heard in songs and on radio programs began to be used by people all over the United States. People also listened to news reports on the radio. So they heard the same news throughout the country, whereas in newspapers much of the news tended to be local. So radio brought Americans together by offering them shared experiences and information about events all around the country.
Narrator
Using points and examples from the talk, explain how the automobile and the radio contributed to a common culture in the United States.
Please begin speaking after the beep.
[2 secs beep]
 
[Appearing on screen]
6. Using points and examples from the talk, explain how the automobile and the radio contributed to a common culture in the United States.
________________________________________
Preparation time:	20 seconds
Response time:	60 seconds





















Writing Section Directions
Make sure your headset is on.
This section measures your ability to use writing to communicate in an academic environment. There will be two writing tasks.
For the first writing task, you will read a passage and listen to a lecture and then answer a question based on what you have read and heard. For the second writing task, you will answer a question based on your own knowledge and experience.
Now listen to the directions for the first writing task.


















Writing based on Reading and Listening Directions
For this task, you will first have five minutes to read a passage about an academic topic. You may take notes on the passage if you wish. The passage will then be removed and you will listen to a lecture about the same topic. While you listen, you may also take notes.
Then you will have 20 minutes to write a response to a question that asks you about the relationship between the lecture you heard and the reading passage. Try to answer the question as completely as possible using information from the reading passage and the lecture. The question does not ask you to express your personal opinion. You will be able to see the reading passage again when it is time for you to write. You may use your notes to help you answer the question.
Typically, an effective response will be 150 to 225 words long. Your response will be judged on the quality of your writing and on the completeness and accuracy of the content. If you finish your response before time is up, you may click on Next to go on to the second writing task.
Now you will see the reading passage for five minutes. Remember it will be available to you again when you write immediately after the reading time ends. The lecture will begin, so keep your headset on until the lecture is over.











Directions:
You have 20 minutes to plan and write your response. Your response will be judged on the basis of the quality of your writing and on how well your response presents the points in the lecture and their relationship to the reading passage. Typically, an effective response will be 150 to 225 words.
Altruism is a type of behavior in which an animal sacrifices its own interest for that of another animal or group of animals. Altruism is the opposite of selfishness; individuals performing altruistic acts gain nothing for themselves.
Examples of altruism abound, both among humans and among other mammals. Unselfish acts among humans range from the sharing of food with strangers to the donation of body organs to family members, and even to strangers. Such acts are altruistic in that they benefit another, yet provide little reward to the one performing the act.
In fact, many species of animals appear willing to sacrifice food, or even their life, to assist other members of their group. The meerkat, which is a mammal that dwells in burrows in grassland areas of Africa, is often cited as an example. In groups of meerkats, an individual acts as a sentinel, standing guard and looking out for predators while the others hunt for food or eat food they have obtained. If the sentinel meerkat sees a predator such as a hawk approaching the group, it gives an alarm cry alerting the other meerkats to run and seek shelter. By standing guard, the sentinel meerkat gains nothing¡ªit goes without food while the others eat, and it places itself in grave danger. After it issues an alarm it has to flee alone, which might make it more at risk to a predator, since animals in groups are often able to work together to fend off a predator. So the altruistic sentinel behavior helps ensure the survival of other members of the meerkat¡¯s group.
Narrator
Now listen to part of a lecture on the topic you just read about.
 
Professor
You know, often in science, new findings force us to re-examine earlier beliefs and assumptions. And a recent study of meerkats is having exactly this effect. The study examined the meerkat¡¯s behavior quite closely, much more closely than had ever been done before. And some interesting things were found...like about eating habits...it showed that typically meerkats eat before they stand guard -- so the ones standing guard had a full stomach! And the study also found that since the sentinel is the first to see a predator coming, it¡¯s the most likely to escape...because it often stands guard near a burrow, so it can run immediately into the burrow after giving the alarm. The other meerkats, the ones scattered about looking for food, are actually in greater danger.
And in fact, other studies have suggested that when an animal creates an alarm, the alarm call might cause the other group members either to gather together or else to move about very quickly, behaviors that might actually draw the predator¡¯s attention away from the caller, increasing that animal¡¯s own chances of survival.
And what about people--what about some human acts that might be considered altruistic? Let¡¯s take an extreme case, uh, suppose a person donates a kidney to a relative, or even to a complete stranger. A selfless act, right? But ...doesn¡¯t the donor receive appreciation and approval from the stranger and from society? Doesn¡¯t the donor gain an increased sense of self worth? Couldn¡¯t such non-material rewards be considered very valuable to some people?
Altruism is a type of behavior in which an animal sacrifices its own interest for that of another animal or group of animals. Altruism is the opposite of selfishness; individuals performing altruistic acts gain nothing for themselves.
Examples of altruism abound, both among humans and among other mammals. Unselfish acts among humans range from the sharing of food with strangers to the donation of body organs to family members, and even to strangers. Such acts are altruistic in that they benefit another, yet provide little reward to the one performing the act.
In fact, many species of animals appear willing to sacrifice food, or even their life, to assist other members of their group. The meerkat, which is a mammal that dwells in burrows in grassland areas of Africa, is often cited as an example. In groups of meerkats, an individual acts as a sentinel, standing guard and looking out for predators while the others hunt for food or eat food they have obtained. If the sentinel meerkat sees a predator such as a hawk approaching the group, it gives an alarm cry alerting the other meerkats to run and seek shelter. By standing guard, the sentinel meerkat gains nothing¡ªit goes without food while the others eat, and it places itself in grave danger. After it issues an alarm it has to flee alone, which might make it more at risk to a predator, since animals in groups are often able to work together to fend off a predator. So the altruistic sentinel behavior helps ensure the survival of other members of the meerkat¡¯s group.
Question:
Summarize the points made in the lecture you just heard, explaining how they cast doubt on points made in the reading.
 
Narrator
Summarize the points made in the lecture you just heard, explaining how they cast doubt on points made in the reading.


Writing based on Knowledge and Experience
Directions
For this task, you will write an essay in response to a question that asks you to state, explain, and support your opinion on an issue. You will have 30 minutes to plan, write, and revise your essay.
Typically, an effective essay will contain a minimum of 300 words. Your essay will be judged on the quality of your writing. This includes the development of your ideas, the organization of your essay, and the quality and accuracy of the language you use to express your ideas.
If you finish your essay before time is up, you may click on Next to end this section.
When you are ready to continue, click on the Dismiss Directions icon.
















Directions:
Read the question below. You have 30 minutes to plan, write, and revise your essay. Typically, an effective response will contain a minimum of 300 words.
Question:
Do you agree or disagree with the following statement?
Good teachers are more important to a child¡¯s development than good parents.
Use specific reasons and examples to support your answer.




