News of Nokia Siemens Networks’ agreement to acquire CDMA and LTE assets from Nortel 
has met with a very positive response from key stakeholders including customers, 
suppliers, Nortel employees, investors and the Canadian government.The acquisition 
of these assets from Nortel is aimed at improving NSN’s presence in North America 
and building on the company’s existing strength in LTE. The encouraging reaction of 
Nortel’s key North American customers suggests NSN is on track to achieve those goals
 should the deal be completed.“Verizon views today's announcement as good news for the
  global wireless industry," said Dick Lynch, Executive Vice President and Chief Technology 
  Officer of Verizon. "This deal brings together two important Verizon suppliers; we look forward 
  to our continuing work with Nokia Siemens Networks."As Nortel's largest customer in Canada, Bell supports Nokia Siemens' plan to continue to foster Nortel's long history of research and development in Canada. Such ongoing technology development is of critical importance as Bell rapidly builds out our advanced next generation wireless networks across Canada,” said Stephen Howe, Senior Vice President of Wireless Networks and Chief Technology Officer, Bell Mobility.Further statements of support were received from Telus in Canada and Sprint in the US. NSN also found support from Export Development Canada, the government-owned credit export agency, which has made a loan commitment of US$300m which will help to finance the transaction. Over the weekend EDC issued a press release expressing its support. 

"Nokia Siemens has been expanding its presence in Canada for many years and this transaction will further its North American expansion," said Paul Day, Vice-President, Information and Communication Technology at EDC. "EDC's participation in this transaction will help ensure that we keep Canadian know-how and capability in Canada." 

One of Nortel’s major suppliers, Airvana, welcomed the agreement. Nortel’s proposed sale of its CDMA business is positive news for Airvana and for Nortel’s customers,” said President and Chief Executive Officer Randy Battat. “As a long-term partner and key supplier to Nortel, Airvana has played a vital role in serving the needs of these customers during the bankruptcy process.”

“The sale to Nokia Siemens Networks would place Nortel’s CDMA business in the hands of a global wireless infrastructure provider with outstanding customer support capabilities,” Battat said. “We expect to work in close partnership with Nokia Siemens Networks in the years ahead, investing in our EV-DO roadmap, supporting our product portfolio to fulfill customer needs, and continuing to deliver current and planned products and services to existing Nortel customers as well as new customers.”

Despite the announcement of the deal coming late on a Friday evening in North America – a very difficult time for the media – NSN’s agreement with Nortel instantly generated huge coverage, particularly in Canada where the media balanced the emotional “break-up of a Canadian icon” story with analysis of NSN and what the bid means for the future of employees and the domestic telecommunications industry.

A weekend of heavy coverage was followed by NSN’s virtual press conference on Monday, which was attended by more than 170 people and produced more copy, the majority favorable, as can be seen by the daily news round-ups.

Analysts also reacted positively to the announcement, with the financial community viewing the deal favorably from  the point of view of Nokia’s shares.

Sanford Bernstein, which has commented heavily about NSN recently and has been pressing for the company to make a strategic move of this kind, endorsed the deal: “This acquisition is a positive for Nokia-Siemens, providing an increased market share in the US (up from ~7% to about 30%) and quality entry points for strategic clients (Verizon, Sprint, Bell Canada).” 
UBS concurred: “Given NSN is scaling up its efforts in CDMA (competing with Alcatel-Lucent), solidifying its number 2 ranking in global mobile infrastructure and may compete more aggressively into new customers, we view this as negative for Alcatel- Lucent. It remains to be seen whether taking 400 R&D LTE engineers poses a more significant threat to Ericsson in LTE long term but buying the LTE assets is clearly a statement of intent from NSN that it would rather scale the business than just manage decline.”

